This module implements the core functionality of olpc-os-builder.
You don't want to exclude it.

[base] options:

- versioned_fs (default 1)
Set to 0 to disable the "upgradeable" /versions-based filesystem layout.
Note that Quanta are unable to install software images on the production
line unless they have use the versioned layout. Disabling this option is
not recommended.

- prepopulate_run (default 1)
Only applicable when building a versioned filesystem layout.
This will cause the /versions/run tree to be populate with a link-farm
from the image in /versions/pristine. This will be done at first-boot time
otherwise, but given that it takes a minute or more, it is a fair improvement
to do it at build time.

- make_iso (default 0)
Set to 1 to enable generation of a .iso file in the output directory.
This .iso may or may not function on a regular system as a LiveCD.
dm-snapshot support is required on the build system (both the userspace
utilities and kernel level support).

- compress_iso (default 1)
Set to 0 to disable squashfs compression of the filesystem on the .iso LiveCD.
This will increase the speed of the build, but the resultant .iso will be
about 3 times as big.

- make_tree_tarball (default 1)
Set to 0 to disable the generation of the LZMA-compressed filesystem tree
tarball

- python_optimize (default 2)
When 0, pyc files will be generated for all Python code in the OS build.
When set to 1, basic optimizations will be enabled, and pyo files will be
generated instead of pyc.
When set to 2, the effects will be the same as 1 except docstrings will
be discarded when generating pyc files.

- timezone (default GMT)
Set the default timezone for the build. This can be later overridden by the
user in the Sugar control panel. The value should be an entry from
/usr/share/zoneinfo e.g. America/Managua

- default_language (default unset)
Override the default language used in the build. Normally, the language
is automatically detected from the manufacturing data of the laptop on first
boot. Only set this if you know of a good reason that you want to override
the factory-programmed default.

- default_kbd_model (default unset)
Override the default XKB keyboard model used in the build. Normally, keyboard
settings are automatically detected from the manufacturing data of the laptop
on first boot. Only set this if you know of a good reason that you want to
override the factory-programmed default.

- default_kbd_layout (default unset)
Override the default XKB keyboard layout used in the build. Normally, keyboard
settings are automatically detected from the manufacturing data of the laptop
on first boot. Only set this if you know of a good reason that you want to
override the factory-programmed default.

- default_kbd_variant (default unset)
Override the default XKB keyboard variant used in the build. Normally, keyboard
settings are automatically detected from the manufacturing data of the laptop
on first boot. Only set this if you know of a good reason that you want to
override the factory-programmed default.
